---
layout: post
title:  "Week 11, day 2 at RC"
date:   2018-06-19 17:00:00 -0500
tags: [free software, ethics, politics, smile]
---
As promised [yesterday]({% post_url 2018-06-18-week-11-day-1-at-rc %}), I will
report on the struggle many of us face as free software enthusiasts and
activists, when it comes to living by our values. Before I continue, I want to
stress that here I am expressing my own personal views; I am writing as
Marianne, not as a board member with [April](https://april.org/) or a
spokesperson for the Free Software Movement.

As Nat tried setting up a fully FLOSS[^1] gaming environment, she run into many
technical issues, because there is always a piece of software which is
unstable, conflicting with other dependencies, or something. And even though
she is motivated, talented, and currently available to dig deeper,
troubleshoot, and patch, this is just *frustrating*.

[^1]: Free/Libre and Open Source Software.

I have experienced similar journeys myself, and Nat is certainly not the first
person to open up to me about this (it is hard because we do not wish to give
free software any bad press). Nat identified very rightfully that it would take
a manual on how to deal with frustration, guilt, and other emotions which arise
in the context of running, promoting, and defending free software.

First of all, she asked me whether I knew of such a resource; I do not. It
might be a good project to put one together... Although, ultimately, my
personal preference is to turn to classical culture. The question at hand is
one of [ethics](https://framagit.org/mkcor/free-software-ethics/blob/master/notes/01_ethics.md).
So, how is it that I keep this radiant smile on my face, while promoting and
defending free software?

The answer is that I am a political activist first and foremost. My goal is not
to win a virtue contest. My goal is not to ensure that *I* only run free
software while the rest of the world runs Microsoft and Apple products[^2]. My
goal is to create the legal and cultural conditions for free software to
flourish and proprietary software to perish.

[^2]: Note that this blog still runs via GitHub, which is being acquired by
      Microsoft...
