---
layout: post
title:  "Week 11, day 1 at RC"
date:   2018-06-18 17:00:00 -0500
tags: [free software, free culture, ethics, video games]
---
Early this morning, I enjoyed a lively discussion with Nat about FLOSS[^1] and
how to practise your principles.
Unlike myself, Nat is very familiar with video games (playing and developing
them). Unfortunately, video games are typically not made out of FLOSS. Nat
clarified for me that there are two parts in a video game's codebase:

[^1]: Free/Libre and Open Source Software.

* the static content (art) vs
* the compiled code (functionality).

The first part is virtually never
[free culture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free-culture_movement), but let us
not worry about this (at least for now).
In the [free software](https://www.fsf.org/) perspective, free culture is an
option, not a requirement. It is interesting to find games at the intersection
of art and code, culture and software, aesthetics and functionality.
We can then consider them through the prism of cultural heritage and cultural
diversity. I will remember this when I finally get back to collaborating with
my sister on the
[Digital Commons](http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/2017-digital-commons-funding.html)
and we write Part II.

The second part (compiled code) is proprietary for all the popular games but,
apparently, there are some high-profile examples of successful
retro-engineering (i.e., where communities of contributors flourish and vendors
let them be). Nat is one of these contributors. With all her technical
abilities *and* ethical convictions, she has been trying to set up a fully
FLOSS development environment.

We focused on the issue of *emotional* hardships! Let me report on it tomorrow,
I have to run right now.
