---
layout: post
title:  "Week 10, day 3 at RC"
date:   2018-06-13 18:00:00 -0500
tags: [body, rest, reading, conferences]
---
First, let me share a body-related update. I believe that our body should
always come first, since everything we are, feel, and make is *conditional* on
our body. I'm thrilled to have tried aerial fabric today! I'm thankful to my
friend for her guidance in booking an intro class with a great instructor. In
the meantime, I think that my back flexibility has improved.

I have this feeling of having "discovered" some back muscles and corresponding
ranges of motion. This is very exciting, because back flexibility was on my
list for my stay in New York City. Soon enough, I should give my body a full
break though, to let my (overstretched) left adductor heal... I have been in a
countdown mood at RC.

I have been going through my informal to-do list, thinking of my next steps,
sending emails. After all, I may start a small company in data science services
(consulting and training)... Today, Nick and I failed again at sitting down,
pairing, meeting to discuss R, Haskell, and functional programming. But, it's
okay, it will happen eventually.

I picked up "Statistical Rethinking" where I left off several weeks ago. I'm
starting to think practically about the talk we are giving next month, at
[SciPy 2018](https://scipy2018.scipy.org/ehome/299527/721463/). By the way, I
have secured my early-bird ticket for
[EuroSciPy 2018]((https://www.euroscipy.org/2018/)) and I encourage you to do
the same. See you there!
