---
layout: post
title:  "Day 2 at RC"
date:   2018-04-03 00:18:08 -0500
tags: [pair programming, obfuscation, bagel, decision making]
---
This morning, I stopped by Café Fanelli for a delicious cappuccino! I spotted
the place from far-ish away as I was walking down Broadway towards RC. I had a
wonderful chat with the barista, by which I mean fun and meaningful.

My day at RC started with a friendly and exciting (although brief) conversation
with Ashley. Then I helped out Lydia with virtualenv, discussing conventions
and good practices for making your Python project portable. Lydia is doing a
web scraping project.

I signed up for the pair programming workshop at 11am and didn't regret it one
bit. It was so much fun. We would tackle a problem from
[exercism](http://exercism.io/exercises/python/hamming/readme) but not just
that: Once your program works (tests pass), you want to refactor it, right?
Well, ref\*cktor. Make it unreadable, convoluted, obfuscated. Haha.

So, Alan and I went for the Hamming distance challenge, ending up with:

```py
def distance(string_1, string_2):
    if len(string_1) - len(string_2):
        raise ValueError("Strings should be the same length!")

    return sum([(lambda a, b: 1 if a - b > 0 else 0)(a, b) for a, b 
        in zip(bytes(string_1, encoding='utf-8'),
               bytes(string_2, encoding='utf-8'))])
```

All this mess just to count the number of differences between two strings.
What was less fun today is that the 'p' key of my keyboard stopped working
properly. I don't get it, because I haven't eaten any sesame bagel since I
left Montréal! I thought the problem might come from a sesame seed stuck under
the 'p' key...

Rory said he would bring a can of compressed air tomorrow. Thank you! I tried
using a wireless keyboard that was sitting around but there were two issues:

* it works with a USB dongle (which I eventually found and taped securely on
the back of the keyboard);
* the batteries in it were dead and leaking (I did some clean-up and left the
dead batteries in a dedicated box).

Funnily, this wireless keyboard belonged to Dan (there was a sticker with his
name on it). So I met Dan, who'd noticed I had a [Stan](http://mc-stan.org/)
sticker on my laptop! Peter and Yuri quickly joined our conversation, and we
decided to start a reading group: Our goal is to go through the first two
chapters of
[Statistical Rethinking](http://xcelab.net/rm/statistical-rethinking/) by the
end of the week!
